Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to see how we can insert a rank in pivot tables so we'll see how we can rank
our values in ascending order.
So that smallest to largest or in descending order.
So its largest to smallest.
So here we've got a pivot table where we have our sales persons and we have their sales
amount.
And let's say we want to rank these sales persons according to their sales amounts,
whether in ascending order or descending order.
So we can insert actually another instance here of the sales amount into our summation of
value section.
We're going to click on it,
go to value field settings and then go to show values as and then here we're gonna choose
on the drop down menu.
We're going to choose rank smallest to largest,
for example.
So this were rank from the smallest value to the largest value,
so the smallest value would take a value of one,
and then largest value will take the largest value basically,
and then the base field here,
the field that we want a base,
our ranking on is gonna be the sales person because we want to rank the values for outside
its persons and then we're going to give it a custom name here.
So rank smallest two largest and then we're going to click.
OK,
so is it cause here it's given us some numbers year,
which are rankings.
However,
we just need to change the number formatting instead of currency.
We're just gonna make it a normal number here.
And as you can see here,
the smallest value takes the value of one on.
Then the second smallest takes a value of two for the rank here and then third smallest
takes a value three.
And that's actually sort our values here in ascending order,
just to be able to see them easier,
says he consider our values here are given ranks according to the order,
with the smallest being given number of one and then the largest being given the largest
number,
which is basically the count of the values here,
which is in our case,
We can also do a rank largest to smallest,
so the largest value is going to take the rank number one and then the smallest value is
gonna take the rank number 10 in this particular case,
which would be useful here because we might need to point out the sales person who has the
highest sales.
So let's do that.
We're gonna insert another instance here for the sales amount.
We're going to click on it,
go to value feel settings and then go to show values as.
And then we're gonna select rank largest to smallest.
And we're gonna selector based fields here to be the sales person We're going to do a
custom name here,
rang largest to smallest,
and we're going to click OK,
here.
And it's being given the incorrect number formatting.
So we're going to correct the number formatting here to be just a number.
And as you can see here we have our rank here,
largest to smallest to largest value here takes the value of one.
Here,
Madeline has the highest sales.
She takes a value of one and then smallest value.
Bob.
He takes the value off 10.
So it's a simple ranking of your values.
So that's it,
guys,
for inserting a rank on your values and pivot tables.
Thank you very much watching this video I'll see on the next one